We’re winding down on the year 2014, and just when it seemed like a good time to take a step back and reflect on all that has happened in the past year, it’s time to start looking to the future. 2015 will be here before you know it, and with it will come new technologies that businesses should consider adopting for their own operations. Technology moves at a rapid pace, so it’s all too easy for companies to get left behind while their competitors advance. You can expect 2015 to bring a lot of changes, and with those will come a shift in strategy as well. To better prepare yourself and your business, here are the five technologies you should be paying extra attention to as 2015 gets underway.
1. The Internet of Things
By now, you’ve likely heard about the Internet of Things (IoT) from industry leaders and analysts. What seemed like a farflung idea is now right at our doorstep. The IoT essentially embeds objects of all kinds with sensors, allowing them to communicate with the user, the internet, and each other. While the IoT has been around in some form for a few years, expect its expansion to greatly increase in 2015. More technology will become embedded into everyday items, allowing for more touch points from consumers. Smartphones and tablets will act like central hubs, allowing you to store data from these items while controlling them as well. Already a number of large companies have worked together to develop a common language so items in the IoT can more easily communicate with each other.
2. HTML 5
HTML 5 will be released in 2015, and while it may not make the kind of headlines the Internet of Things does, it could have a substantial impact on your business. The HTML 5 system will help in the maturation of web development tools that are so needed in this age of mobile devices. In fact, many analysts are predicting that with HTML 5, mobile web and hybrid applications will explode in popularity even more than they have recently. HTML 5 essentially allows companies to easily deliver applications across a wide variety of different platforms, something that is essential as we become even more attached to our smartphones and tablets .
3. 3D Printing
If one thing about 3D printing has been consistent, it’s been the hype surrounding it. 3D printing grew in mainstream acceptance in 2014, but in 2015 the costs of the technology are expected to decrease dramatically. That means an expanding market for all sorts of business uses. The industrial sector has already taken advantage of the technology, so that industry will continue to see impressive growth. New areas using 3D printing will include biomedical and consumer applications. The reduced costs will go a long way toward making the product development cycle more efficient.
4. The Enterprise Cloud
It seems like only yesterday when businesses were asking questions like, “ What is cloud computing ?” and “What does the cloud mean for my business?” Now, companies have become much more familiar with the cloud, using it for anything from data storage to email. Experts predict 2015 will be seen as the year organizations realize on-premise private clouds are unable to meet the added demands being placed upon them. Faster innovation, more mobile access, and better cross-product integration are all needed by businesses now, and enterprise cloud is where they’ll find the solutions. Security will also play a big factor in greater numbers of companies adopting the cloud, since public clouds will have more resources and more experienced workers to handle today’s security challenges.
5. Advanced Big Data Analytics
Big data is another buzzword businesses are talking about, with many adopting big data analytics to help get results. With the growth of wearable devices, the Internet of Things, and mobile technology, the amount of data being generated will only get dramatically bigger. Managing and sorting through all that structured and unstructured data will require a more advanced form of big data analytics . The focus of this more pervasive analytics strategy will be on results, not necessarily on how much data is collected. The more solutions are found, the more value the analytics will have.
These five technologies show how much potential for change there is in 2015. At the same time, innovations not even on the radar will likely be noticed as well. Your business needs to be ready to understand and even adopt these technologies if you want to make major strides over the coming year. Growth is key and through the five technologies listed above, growth can be attained more easily. In short, expect a lot of exciting technological achievements in 2015.
